# FARE
Fragment Aware R-group Enumerator is a tool for systematic R-group enumeration based on fragment linking and similarity-driven selection. It enables exploration of chemical space by attaching context aware fragments to defined scaffolds, filtering them using descriptor-based cutoffs, and generating diverse ligand libraries.

## How It Works

The provided Jupyter notebook walks through the following steps:

### 1. Input molecules
- Accepts the parent molecule and scaffold of interest as SMILES strings.
- The parent molecule SMILES is used to detect attachment points and extract the fragments being replaced.
### 2. Fragment library
- Requires a fragment library in .csv format. The CSV must contain a column named Fragments, with attachment points specified.
- A pre-prepared fragment library (generated by BRICS decomposition from a lead-like Life Chemicals dataset: https://lifechemicals.com/screening-libraries/lead-like-screening-compound-library) is included in the repository.
- Alternatively, users can provide their own fragment library of interest.
### 3. Fragment selection & library generation
- The tool computes similarity between fragments removed from the parent molecule and those in the fragment library.
- For each attachment point, it selects fragments that are physicochemically similar to the originals.
- A new enumerated library of molecules is generated according to user specifications.
- **Optional**: Users can provide their own fragment library. To generate one from a CSV of molecules, use the provided `brics.py` script:
```bash
  python brics.py input.csv output.csv
```
  
### Fragment Linking and Descriptor Similarity
Similarity is guided by a focused set of physicochemical descriptors:
- MolWt — molecular mass; affects size, sterics, and distribution.
- LogP — lipophilicity; impacts solubility and permeability.
- TPSA — topological polar surface area; correlates with H-bonding and permeability.
- HBA / HBD — counts of H-bond acceptors and donors; important for binding interactions.
- Rotatable Bonds — flexibility; influences conformational entropy and fit in the pocket.

These descriptors are chosen to capture size, polarity, flexibility, and H-bonding potential, ensuring the generated fragments maintain favorable ADME properties and binding features. Using too many descriptors may introduce noise and reduce meaningfulness, while fingerprint based similarity finds highly similar fragments but can reduce chemical diversity. A smaller, targeted descriptor set balances diversity and binding-pocket suitability.



# Installation

```bash
### 1. Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/CathereneTomy/R-Enumerator.git
cd REnumerator

### 2. Create and activate the conda environment
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate r-enum
